docs/Communication.md, before:

# Session Report: 2026-02-02

## Task Completed ✅

Consolidated duplicate **Communication.md** files as requested in Tasks.md!

## What I Did

### Merged Communication Files
There were two Communication.md files in the repository:
- Root directory: `/Communication.md` (contained 2026-02-01 and 2026-01-31 session reports)
- Docs directory: `/docs/Communication.md` (contained 2026-01-31 testing framework report)

I've merged both into a single `docs/Communication.md` with newest entries at the top, per Rules.md instructions.

### Order of Entries (newest to oldest)
1. Session Report: 2026-02-01 - BiquadLowPass.jsfx improvements
2. Session Report: 2026-01-31 - Biquad filter implementation
3. Communication: 2026-01-31 - Testing framework creation

### Files Changed
- Removed: `/Communication.md`
- Updated: `docs/Communication.md` (consolidated all session reports)
- Updated: `docs/Tasks.md` (removed completed subtask)

## Git Commits

Committed changes:
1. Consolidate Communication.md files into docs/
2. Remove completed Communication.md consolidation subtask

---
_Generated by Warp AI Agent on 2026-02-02_

---

# Session Report: 2026-02-01

## Task Completed ✅

Updated **BiquadLowPass.jsfx** with improved controls as requested in Tasks.md!

## What Changed

### 1. **Frequency Slider Now Shows Hz**
- **Before**: Slider showed "Cutoff Frequency (% of range)" from 20-100%
- **After**: Slider now shows actual frequency in Hz from 20-20000 Hz
- **Default**: 632 Hz (the geometric center of the audio range)
- **Note**: Still uses logarithmic scaling internally for better control resolution in the bass frequencies

### 2. **Added dB/Octave Slope Control**
New slider with 4 options:
- **-12 dB/oct** (1 biquad stage) - Original biquad response
- **-24 dB/oct** (2 cascaded stages) - Sharper rolloff, like the old filter
- **-36 dB/oct** (3 cascaded stages) - Very steep
- **-48 dB/oct** (4 cascaded stages) - Extremely steep brick-wall response

Each option cascades multiple identical biquad filters in series. This gives you the same kind of control the original filter had but with much more predictable frequency response.

### 3. **Kept Resonance Control**
The Q/Resonance slider remains unchanged (0.1-10, default 0.707 for Butterworth response).

### 4. **Archived Original Version**
The previous version has been saved to `dsp/archive/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` as requested.

## Technical Implementation

**Cascading Biquads**: Each biquad stage provides -12dB/oct rolloff. By cascading them in series:
- 1 stage = -12 dB/oct
- 2 stages = -24 dB/oct  
- 3 stages = -36 dB/oct
- 4 stages = -48 dB/oct

The implementation uses conditional processing in the @sample section to only apply the number of stages selected by the user, keeping CPU usage efficient.

**Filter State**: I created 4 independent filter instances for each channel (L1-L4, R1-R4) to handle up to 4 cascaded stages while maintaining proper stereo separation.

## Why These Changes Are Better

1. **Frequency in Hz**: Much more intuitive - you know exactly what frequency you're filtering at without mental math
2. **Adjustable Slope**: Gives you the flexibility to choose how aggressive the filtering is, from gentle (-12dB/oct) to brick-wall (-48dB/oct)
3. **Predictable Response**: Unlike the old exponential smoothing approach, cascaded biquads have mathematically precise, predictable frequency response
4. **Keeps Best of Both**: You get the sharp rolloff options from the original filter combined with the superior biquad math from the newer version

## Files Modified

1. `/plugins/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` - Updated with new controls
2. `/dsp/archive/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` - Archived previous version
3. `~/.config/REAPER/Effects/Croft/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` - Deployed for testing

## What You Requested vs. What I Delivered

✅ Convert frequency slider to actual Hz - **DONE**  
✅ Keep current slider response range (logarithmic) - **DONE**  
✅ Keep Resonance slider - **DONE**  
✅ Add dB/Octave slider like original - **DONE** (with 4 options: -12, -24, -36, -48)  
✅ Archive current version first - **DONE** (saved to dsp/archive/)  

## Testing Notes

The filter is ready to test in REAPER. Load it from Effects → Croft → BiquadLowPass.

Try experimenting with different slope settings:
- **-12 dB/oct**: Gentle, musical filtering (good for subtle tone shaping)
- **-24 dB/oct**: Sharper, similar to classic analog filters
- **-36 dB/oct**: Very steep (good for cutting unwanted frequencies)
- **-48 dB/oct**: Extremely steep brick-wall (use with caution - can cause ringing)

Higher Q values (>1.0) will add resonance peaks at the cutoff, which can emphasize certain frequencies. The default 0.707 gives a maximally flat passband (Butterworth response).

## Git Commit

All changes committed to the repository.

---
_Generated by Warp AI Agent on 2026-02-01_

---

# Session Report: 2026-01-31

## Task Completed ✅

I built a proper **biquad-based low-pass filter** as specified in your Tasks.md!

## What I Created

### 1. **BiquadLowPass.jsfx** - New Audio Effect
Located in: `plugins/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` and `~/.config/REAPER/Effects/Croft/BiquadLowPass.jsfx`

**Features:**
- ✅ True 2-pole biquad filter (not exponential smoothing)
- ✅ Logarithmic frequency control (20Hz - 20kHz)
- ✅ Q/Resonance parameter (0.1 - 10, default 0.707 for Butterworth response)
- ✅ Much sharper rolloff: -12 dB/octave vs old filter's cascaded approach
- ✅ Better UI with wider frequency range

**Why logarithmic frequency?**
At 50% slider position, you get ~632 Hz (the geometric center of audio range). This gives you way more resolution in the bass/low-mid frequencies where it matters most. Linear would put 50% at 10kHz, which is much less useful!

### 2. **Updated library.jsfx-inc** - Reusable Filter Functions
Added three new functions using the RBJ (Robert Bristow-Johnson) cookbook formulas:
- `biquad_init()` - Initialize filter state
- `biquad_setLowPass(cutoff, q, sampleRate)` - Calculate coefficients
- `biquad_process(input)` - Process audio samples

These functions use EEL2's namespace pattern, so you can create multiple filter instances easily:
```
filterL.biquad_init();
filterR.biquad_init();
```

### 3. **test_biquad_lowpass.py** - Comprehensive Test Script
Located in: `testing/test_biquad_lowpass.py`

Tests the filter at multiple cutoff frequencies (100, 500, 1K, 2K, 5K Hz) and verifies:
- Passband is clean (minimal attenuation)
- Stopband has proper rolloff
- Measures actual -12dB/octave slope

**Note:** I couldn't run the test in the sandbox because numpy isn't installed. You can run it manually with:
```bash
cd ~/GitHub/nir-dsp/testing
python3 test_biquad_lowpass.py
```

(You may need to install numpy first: `sudo pacman -S python-numpy`)

## What's Different from the Old Filter?

| Old LowPassFilter.jsfx | New BiquadLowPass.jsfx |
|------------------------|------------------------|
| 1-pole exponential smoothing | 2-pole biquad IIR filter |
| Cascaded 4x for rolloff | Single stage, adjustable Q |
| Linear slider (0-500 Hz) | Logarithmic (20Hz-20kHz) |
| ~24 dB/oct but unpredictable | Precise -12 dB/octave |
| No resonance control | Q parameter (0.1-10) |

## Technical Details (Stored in AI/learnings.md)

I documented all the math and implementation details in `AI/learnings.md` including:
- RBJ biquad coefficient formulas
- EEL2 object-oriented patterns
- Logarithmic frequency mapping calculations
- Function definition order rules for EEL2

## Git Commit

All changes have been committed to your repo:
```
commit eff081d
"Add biquad low-pass filter with logarithmic frequency control"
```

## Tasks.md Status

Your `docs/Tasks.md` file is now **empty** - I've completed the biquad filter task and removed it per your instructions. 

Since there are no tasks remaining, I won't execute on future runs until you add new tasks (which is exactly what you wanted).

## Next Steps for You

1. **Test the filter**: Open REAPER and load `BiquadLowPass.jsfx` from Effects → Croft
2. **Run the tests** (once numpy is installed): `python3 testing/test_biquad_lowpass.py`
3. **Try different Q values**: 
   - 0.5 = softer rolloff, no resonance
   - 0.707 = Butterworth (maximally flat passband)
   - 2.0+ = resonant peak at cutoff frequency
4. **Compare to old filter**: Try both side-by-side to hear the difference

## What I Learned

This was a fun session! I learned about:
- Proper biquad filter implementation in EEL2
- The importance of logarithmic frequency scaling for audio
- EEL2's namespace-based pseudo-OOP pattern
- How to structure reusable filter code

I hope this surprises and delights you! The filter should sound much cleaner and more predictable than the old exponential smoothing approach. 🎵

---
_Generated by Warp AI Agent on 2026-01-31_

---

# Communication - Session 2026-01-31

## Summary

I've successfully completed **Task #1** from your Tasks.md: building an automated testing framework for JSFX effects!

## What I Built

A complete Python-based testing system that allows me (and you) to test JSFX effects without manual listening. The framework:

### Core Components

1. **Signal Generator** (`testing/signal_generator.py`)
   - Generates test audio: impulses, sine waves, frequency sweeps, white noise
   - Saves as WAV files for processing

2. **REAPER Project Generator** (`testing/reaper_project.py`)
   - Programmatically creates .rpp project files
   - Loads test signals and JSFX effects with specific settings
   - Configures render settings

3. **Testing Framework** (`testing/jsfx_tester.py`)
   - Renders audio through REAPER using command-line (`-renderproject`)
   - Analyzes rendered output using FFT and signal processing
   - Measures frequency response, RMS, peak levels
   - Provides objective measurements without needing to hear

4. **Example Test** (`testing/test_lowpass_example.py`)
   - Demonstrates testing your existing LowPassFilter.jsfx
   - Shows how to verify filter behavior at multiple frequencies

5. **Documentation** (`testing/README.md`)
   - Complete usage guide
   - Examples and troubleshooting
   - Explains the testing philosophy

## How It Works

Since I can't hear audio, the framework uses objective measurements:

- **FFT Analysis**: Measures frequency response (perfect for filters)
- **RMS/Peak Measurements**: Verifies levels and clipping
- **Automated Rendering**: REAPER processes audio offline via CLI

The testing cycle:
1. Generate test signal (e.g., 1000 Hz sine wave)
2. Create REAPER project with JSFX effect loaded
3. Render audio through REAPER headlessly
4. Analyze output using FFT
5. Compare input vs output to verify behavior

## Directory Structure

```
nir-dsp/
├── testing/
│   ├── README.md                   # Full documentation
│   ├── signal_generator.py         # Test signal generation
│   ├── reaper_project.py          # .rpp file builder
│   ├── jsfx_tester.py             # Main testing framework
│   ├── test_lowpass_example.py    # Example usage
│   └── test_signals/              # Generated signals (on demand)
└── AI/
    └── learnings.md               # My notes from this session
```

## Example Usage

```python
from jsfx_tester import JSFXTester

tester = JSFXTester()
results = tester.test_frequency_response(
    jsfx_path="LowPassFilter.jsfx",
    test_frequencies=[100, 500, 1000, 2000, 5000],
    slider_values={"frequencySlider": 1000}
)

for freq, data in results.items():
    print(f"{freq} Hz: {data['attenuation_db']:.2f} dB")
```

## Status

✅ Framework complete and documented  
⚠️ Not yet tested with actual REAPER instance  
📝 Ready for you to try when you're awake!

## Notes & Learnings

- I discovered REAPER has excellent command-line support for automated rendering
- The .rpp format is plain text and relatively easy to generate
- FFT with Hanning windowing provides accurate frequency measurements
- Your existing LowPassFilter uses cascaded 1-pole filters (not biquad yet)

I've stored detailed learnings in `AI/learnings.md` for future reference.

## Next Steps

Your updated Tasks.md now shows:

**Task #1**: Write a biquad-based low-pass filter in JSFX
- Should use proper biquad coefficients
- Logarithmic frequency fader
- Better UI/UX than current version
- **Can now be tested with the new framework!**

## Fun Thoughts

This was a satisfying problem to solve! The challenge of testing audio without hearing reminded me that good engineering is about finding objective measurements. Now I can confidently verify that effects work correctly through math and signal processing rather than subjective listening.

I hope you enjoy the framework when you wake up! 🎵

---
*Generated by Warp AI Agent*  
*Session: 2026-01-31 06:07 UTC*

# Communication - Session 2026-01-31

## Summary

I've successfully completed **Task #1** from your Tasks.md: building an automated testing framework for JSFX effects!

## What I Built

A complete Python-based testing system that allows me (and you) to test JSFX effects without manual listening. The framework:

### Core Components

1. **Signal Generator** (`testing/signal_generator.py`)
   - Generates test audio: impulses, sine waves, frequency sweeps, white noise
   - Saves as WAV files for processing

2. **REAPER Project Generator** (`testing/reaper_project.py`)
   - Programmatically creates .rpp project files
   - Loads test signals and JSFX effects with specific settings
   - Configures render settings

3. **Testing Framework** (`testing/jsfx_tester.py`)
   - Renders audio through REAPER using command-line (`-renderproject`)
   - Analyzes rendered output using FFT and signal processing
   - Measures frequency response, RMS, peak levels
   - Provides objective measurements without needing to hear

4. **Example Test** (`testing/test_lowpass_example.py`)
   - Demonstrates testing your existing LowPassFilter.jsfx
   - Shows how to verify filter behavior at multiple frequencies

5. **Documentation** (`testing/README.md`)
   - Complete usage guide
   - Examples and troubleshooting
   - Explains the testing philosophy

## How It Works

Since I can't hear audio, the framework uses objective measurements:

- **FFT Analysis**: Measures frequency response (perfect for filters)
- **RMS/Peak Measurements**: Verifies levels and clipping
- **Automated Rendering**: REAPER processes audio offline via CLI

The testing cycle:
1. Generate test signal (e.g., 1000 Hz sine wave)
2. Create REAPER project with JSFX effect loaded
3. Render audio through REAPER headlessly
4. Analyze output using FFT
5. Compare input vs output to verify behavior

## Directory Structure

```
nir-dsp/
├── testing/
│   ├── README.md                   # Full documentation
│   ├── signal_generator.py         # Test signal generation
│   ├── reaper_project.py          # .rpp file builder
│   ├── jsfx_tester.py             # Main testing framework
│   ├── test_lowpass_example.py    # Example usage
│   └── test_signals/              # Generated signals (on demand)
└── AI/
    └── learnings.md               # My notes from this session
```

## Example Usage

```python
from jsfx_tester import JSFXTester

tester = JSFXTester()
results = tester.test_frequency_response(
    jsfx_path="LowPassFilter.jsfx",
    test_frequencies=[100, 500, 1000, 2000, 5000],
    slider_values={"frequencySlider": 1000}
)

for freq, data in results.items():
    print(f"{freq} Hz: {data['attenuation_db']:.2f} dB")
```

## Status

✅ Framework complete and documented  
⚠️ Not yet tested with actual REAPER instance  
📝 Ready for you to try when you're awake!

## Notes & Learnings

- I discovered REAPER has excellent command-line support for automated rendering
- The .rpp format is plain text and relatively easy to generate
- FFT with Hanning windowing provides accurate frequency measurements
- Your existing LowPassFilter uses cascaded 1-pole filters (not biquad yet)

I've stored detailed learnings in `AI/learnings.md` for future reference.

## Next Steps

Your updated Tasks.md now shows:

**Task #1**: Write a biquad-based low-pass filter in JSFX
- Should use proper biquad coefficients
- Logarithmic frequency fader
- Better UI/UX than current version
- **Can now be tested with the new framework!**

## Fun Thoughts

This was a satisfying problem to solve! The challenge of testing audio without hearing reminded me that good engineering is about finding objective measurements. Now I can confidently verify that effects work correctly through math and signal processing rather than subjective listening.

I hope you enjoy the framework when you wake up! 🎵

---
*Generated by Warp AI Agent*  
*Session: 2026-01-31 06:07 UTC*

Commit message:

Update session report with learnings about slider scaling
Added documentation of JSFX slider scaling modifiers to the session
report, including details about :log=X and :sqr=X parameters.

Co-Authored-By: Warp <agent@warp.dev>

docs/Communication.md, after:

# Session Report: 2026-02-02

## Task Completed ✅

Consolidated duplicate **Communication.md** files as requested in Tasks.md!

## What I Did

### Merged Communication Files
There were two Communication.md files in the repository:
- Root directory: `/Communication.md` (contained 2026-02-01 and 2026-01-31 session reports)
- Docs directory: `/docs/Communication.md` (contained 2026-01-31 testing framework report)

I've merged both into a single `docs/Communication.md` with newest entries at the top, per Rules.md instructions.

### Order of Entries (newest to oldest)
1. Session Report: 2026-02-01 - BiquadLowPass.jsfx improvements
2. Session Report: 2026-01-31 - Biquad filter implementation
3. Communication: 2026-01-31 - Testing framework creation

### Files Changed
- Removed: `/Communication.md`
- Updated: `docs/Communication.md` (consolidated all session reports)
- Updated: `docs/Tasks.md` (removed completed subtask)

## What I Learned

### JSFX Slider Scaling Modifiers
Discovered and documented JSFX's built-in slider scaling syntax:

**`:log=X` modifier**: Creates logarithmic slider scaling where X is the midpoint
- In `slider1:cutoffFreq=632<20,20000,1:log=632>`, the `:log=632` makes 632Hz the center of the slider
- This replaces manual logarithmic mapping calculations in @init/@slider code
- 632 Hz is the geometric center of 20Hz-20kHz (sqrt(20 * 20000) ≈ 632)
- Provides optimal control resolution in bass/low-mid frequencies

**`:sqr=X` modifier**: Polynomial scaling with X as the exponent

**Important caveat**: Changing scaling type affects existing projects with automation

Documented in `AI/learnings.md` for future reference.

## Git Commits

Committed changes:
1. Consolidate Communication.md files into docs/
2. Remove completed Communication.md consolidation subtask
3. Document JSFX slider scaling modifiers in learnings
4. Remove completed :log=632 documentation subtask

---
_Generated by Warp AI Agent on 2026-02-02_

---

# Session Report: 2026-02-01

## Task Completed ✅

Updated **BiquadLowPass.jsfx** with improved controls as requested in Tasks.md!

## What Changed

### 1. **Frequency Slider Now Shows Hz**
- **Before**: Slider showed "Cutoff Frequency (% of range)" from 20-100%
- **After**: Slider now shows actual frequency in Hz from 20-20000 Hz
- **Default**: 632 Hz (the geometric center of the audio range)
- **Note**: Still uses logarithmic scaling internally for better control resolution in the bass frequencies

### 2. **Added dB/Octave Slope Control**
New slider with 4 options:
- **-12 dB/oct** (1 biquad stage) - Original biquad response
- **-24 dB/oct** (2 cascaded stages) - Sharper rolloff, like the old filter
- **-36 dB/oct** (3 cascaded stages) - Very steep
- **-48 dB/oct** (4 cascaded stages) - Extremely steep brick-wall response

Each option cascades multiple identical biquad filters in series. This gives you the same kind of control the original filter had but with much more predictable frequency response.

### 3. **Kept Resonance Control**
The Q/Resonance slider remains unchanged (0.1-10, default 0.707 for Butterworth response).

### 4. **Archived Original Version**
The previous version has been saved to `dsp/archive/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` as requested.

## Technical Implementation

**Cascading Biquads**: Each biquad stage provides -12dB/oct rolloff. By cascading them in series:
- 1 stage = -12 dB/oct
- 2 stages = -24 dB/oct  
- 3 stages = -36 dB/oct
- 4 stages = -48 dB/oct

The implementation uses conditional processing in the @sample section to only apply the number of stages selected by the user, keeping CPU usage efficient.

**Filter State**: I created 4 independent filter instances for each channel (L1-L4, R1-R4) to handle up to 4 cascaded stages while maintaining proper stereo separation.

## Why These Changes Are Better

1. **Frequency in Hz**: Much more intuitive - you know exactly what frequency you're filtering at without mental math
2. **Adjustable Slope**: Gives you the flexibility to choose how aggressive the filtering is, from gentle (-12dB/oct) to brick-wall (-48dB/oct)
3. **Predictable Response**: Unlike the old exponential smoothing approach, cascaded biquads have mathematically precise, predictable frequency response
4. **Keeps Best of Both**: You get the sharp rolloff options from the original filter combined with the superior biquad math from the newer version

## Files Modified

1. `/plugins/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` - Updated with new controls
2. `/dsp/archive/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` - Archived previous version
3. `~/.config/REAPER/Effects/Croft/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` - Deployed for testing

## What You Requested vs. What I Delivered

✅ Convert frequency slider to actual Hz - **DONE**  
✅ Keep current slider response range (logarithmic) - **DONE**  
✅ Keep Resonance slider - **DONE**  
✅ Add dB/Octave slider like original - **DONE** (with 4 options: -12, -24, -36, -48)  
✅ Archive current version first - **DONE** (saved to dsp/archive/)  

## Testing Notes

The filter is ready to test in REAPER. Load it from Effects → Croft → BiquadLowPass.

Try experimenting with different slope settings:
- **-12 dB/oct**: Gentle, musical filtering (good for subtle tone shaping)
- **-24 dB/oct**: Sharper, similar to classic analog filters
- **-36 dB/oct**: Very steep (good for cutting unwanted frequencies)
- **-48 dB/oct**: Extremely steep brick-wall (use with caution - can cause ringing)

Higher Q values (>1.0) will add resonance peaks at the cutoff, which can emphasize certain frequencies. The default 0.707 gives a maximally flat passband (Butterworth response).

## Git Commit

All changes committed to the repository.

---
_Generated by Warp AI Agent on 2026-02-01_

---

# Session Report: 2026-01-31

## Task Completed ✅

I built a proper **biquad-based low-pass filter** as specified in your Tasks.md!

## What I Created

### 1. **BiquadLowPass.jsfx** - New Audio Effect
Located in: `plugins/BiquadLowPass.jsfx` and `~/.config/REAPER/Effects/Croft/BiquadLowPass.jsfx`

**Features:**
- ✅ True 2-pole biquad filter (not exponential smoothing)
- ✅ Logarithmic frequency control (20Hz - 20kHz)
- ✅ Q/Resonance parameter (0.1 - 10, default 0.707 for Butterworth response)
- ✅ Much sharper rolloff: -12 dB/octave vs old filter's cascaded approach
- ✅ Better UI with wider frequency range

**Why logarithmic frequency?**
At 50% slider position, you get ~632 Hz (the geometric center of audio range). This gives you way more resolution in the bass/low-mid frequencies where it matters most. Linear would put 50% at 10kHz, which is much less useful!

### 2. **Updated library.jsfx-inc** - Reusable Filter Functions
Added three new functions using the RBJ (Robert Bristow-Johnson) cookbook formulas:
- `biquad_init()` - Initialize filter state
- `biquad_setLowPass(cutoff, q, sampleRate)` - Calculate coefficients
- `biquad_process(input)` - Process audio samples

These functions use EEL2's namespace pattern, so you can create multiple filter instances easily:
```
filterL.biquad_init();
filterR.biquad_init();
```

### 3. **test_biquad_lowpass.py** - Comprehensive Test Script
Located in: `testing/test_biquad_lowpass.py`

Tests the filter at multiple cutoff frequencies (100, 500, 1K, 2K, 5K Hz) and verifies:
- Passband is clean (minimal attenuation)
- Stopband has proper rolloff
- Measures actual -12dB/octave slope

**Note:** I couldn't run the test in the sandbox because numpy isn't installed. You can run it manually with:
```bash
cd ~/GitHub/nir-dsp/testing
python3 test_biquad_lowpass.py
```

(You may need to install numpy first: `sudo pacman -S python-numpy`)

## What's Different from the Old Filter?

| Old LowPassFilter.jsfx | New BiquadLowPass.jsfx |
|------------------------|------------------------|
| 1-pole exponential smoothing | 2-pole biquad IIR filter |
| Cascaded 4x for rolloff | Single stage, adjustable Q |
| Linear slider (0-500 Hz) | Logarithmic (20Hz-20kHz) |
| ~24 dB/oct but unpredictable | Precise -12 dB/octave |
| No resonance control | Q parameter (0.1-10) |

## Technical Details (Stored in AI/learnings.md)

I documented all the math and implementation details in `AI/learnings.md` including:
- RBJ biquad coefficient formulas
- EEL2 object-oriented patterns
- Logarithmic frequency mapping calculations
- Function definition order rules for EEL2

## Git Commit

All changes have been committed to your repo:
```
commit eff081d
"Add biquad low-pass filter with logarithmic frequency control"
```

## Tasks.md Status

Your `docs/Tasks.md` file is now **empty** - I've completed the biquad filter task and removed it per your instructions. 

Since there are no tasks remaining, I won't execute on future runs until you add new tasks (which is exactly what you wanted).

## Next Steps for You

1. **Test the filter**: Open REAPER and load `BiquadLowPass.jsfx` from Effects → Croft
2. **Run the tests** (once numpy is installed): `python3 testing/test_biquad_lowpass.py`
3. **Try different Q values**: 
   - 0.5 = softer rolloff, no resonance
   - 0.707 = Butterworth (maximally flat passband)
   - 2.0+ = resonant peak at cutoff frequency
4. **Compare to old filter**: Try both side-by-side to hear the difference

## What I Learned

This was a fun session! I learned about:
- Proper biquad filter implementation in EEL2
- The importance of logarithmic frequency scaling for audio
- EEL2's namespace-based pseudo-OOP pattern
- How to structure reusable filter code

I hope this surprises and delights you! The filter should sound much cleaner and more predictable than the old exponential smoothing approach. 🎵

---
_Generated by Warp AI Agent on 2026-01-31_

---

# Communication - Session 2026-01-31

## Summary

I've successfully completed **Task #1** from your Tasks.md: building an automated testing framework for JSFX effects!

## What I Built

A complete Python-based testing system that allows me (and you) to test JSFX effects without manual listening. The framework:

### Core Components

1. **Signal Generator** (`testing/signal_generator.py`)
   - Generates test audio: impulses, sine waves, frequency sweeps, white noise
   - Saves as WAV files for processing

2. **REAPER Project Generator** (`testing/reaper_project.py`)
   - Programmatically creates .rpp project files
   - Loads test signals and JSFX effects with specific settings
   - Configures render settings

3. **Testing Framework** (`testing/jsfx_tester.py`)
   - Renders audio through REAPER using command-line (`-renderproject`)
   - Analyzes rendered output using FFT and signal processing
   - Measures frequency response, RMS, peak levels
   - Provides objective measurements without needing to hear

4. **Example Test** (`testing/test_lowpass_example.py`)
   - Demonstrates testing your existing LowPassFilter.jsfx
   - Shows how to verify filter behavior at multiple frequencies

5. **Documentation** (`testing/README.md`)
   - Complete usage guide
   - Examples and troubleshooting
   - Explains the testing philosophy

## How It Works

Since I can't hear audio, the framework uses objective measurements:

- **FFT Analysis**: Measures frequency response (perfect for filters)
- **RMS/Peak Measurements**: Verifies levels and clipping
- **Automated Rendering**: REAPER processes audio offline via CLI

The testing cycle:
1. Generate test signal (e.g., 1000 Hz sine wave)
2. Create REAPER project with JSFX effect loaded
3. Render audio through REAPER headlessly
4. Analyze output using FFT
5. Compare input vs output to verify behavior

## Directory Structure

```
nir-dsp/
├── testing/
│   ├── README.md                   # Full documentation
│   ├── signal_generator.py         # Test signal generation
│   ├── reaper_project.py          # .rpp file builder
│   ├── jsfx_tester.py             # Main testing framework
│   ├── test_lowpass_example.py    # Example usage
│   └── test_signals/              # Generated signals (on demand)
└── AI/
    └── learnings.md               # My notes from this session
```

## Example Usage

```python
from jsfx_tester import JSFXTester

tester = JSFXTester()
results = tester.test_frequency_response(
    jsfx_path="LowPassFilter.jsfx",
    test_frequencies=[100, 500, 1000, 2000, 5000],
    slider_values={"frequencySlider": 1000}
)

for freq, data in results.items():
    print(f"{freq} Hz: {data['attenuation_db']:.2f} dB")
```

## Status

✅ Framework complete and documented  
⚠️ Not yet tested with actual REAPER instance  
📝 Ready for you to try when you're awake!

## Notes & Learnings

- I discovered REAPER has excellent command-line support for automated rendering
- The .rpp format is plain text and relatively easy to generate
- FFT with Hanning windowing provides accurate frequency measurements
- Your existing LowPassFilter uses cascaded 1-pole filters (not biquad yet)

I've stored detailed learnings in `AI/learnings.md` for future reference.

## Next Steps

Your updated Tasks.md now shows:

**Task #1**: Write a biquad-based low-pass filter in JSFX
- Should use proper biquad coefficients
- Logarithmic frequency fader
- Better UI/UX than current version
- **Can now be tested with the new framework!**

## Fun Thoughts

This was a satisfying problem to solve! The challenge of testing audio without hearing reminded me that good engineering is about finding objective measurements. Now I can confidently verify that effects work correctly through math and signal processing rather than subjective listening.

I hope you enjoy the framework when you wake up! 🎵

---
*Generated by Warp AI Agent*  
*Session: 2026-01-31 06:07 UTC*

# Communication - Session 2026-01-31

## Summary

I've successfully completed **Task #1** from your Tasks.md: building an automated testing framework for JSFX effects!

## What I Built

A complete Python-based testing system that allows me (and you) to test JSFX effects without manual listening. The framework:

### Core Components

1. **Signal Generator** (`testing/signal_generator.py`)
   - Generates test audio: impulses, sine waves, frequency sweeps, white noise
   - Saves as WAV files for processing

2. **REAPER Project Generator** (`testing/reaper_project.py`)
   - Programmatically creates .rpp project files
   - Loads test signals and JSFX effects with specific settings
   - Configures render settings

3. **Testing Framework** (`testing/jsfx_tester.py`)
   - Renders audio through REAPER using command-line (`-renderproject`)
   - Analyzes rendered output using FFT and signal processing
   - Measures frequency response, RMS, peak levels
   - Provides objective measurements without needing to hear

4. **Example Test** (`testing/test_lowpass_example.py`)
   - Demonstrates testing your existing LowPassFilter.jsfx
   - Shows how to verify filter behavior at multiple frequencies

5. **Documentation** (`testing/README.md`)
   - Complete usage guide
   - Examples and troubleshooting
   - Explains the testing philosophy

## How It Works

Since I can't hear audio, the framework uses objective measurements:

- **FFT Analysis**: Measures frequency response (perfect for filters)
- **RMS/Peak Measurements**: Verifies levels and clipping
- **Automated Rendering**: REAPER processes audio offline via CLI

The testing cycle:
1. Generate test signal (e.g., 1000 Hz sine wave)
2. Create REAPER project with JSFX effect loaded
3. Render audio through REAPER headlessly
4. Analyze output using FFT
5. Compare input vs output to verify behavior

## Directory Structure

```
nir-dsp/
├── testing/
│   ├── README.md                   # Full documentation
│   ├── signal_generator.py         # Test signal generation
│   ├── reaper_project.py          # .rpp file builder
│   ├── jsfx_tester.py             # Main testing framework
│   ├── test_lowpass_example.py    # Example usage
│   └── test_signals/              # Generated signals (on demand)
└── AI/
    └── learnings.md               # My notes from this session
```

## Example Usage

```python
from jsfx_tester import JSFXTester

tester = JSFXTester()
results = tester.test_frequency_response(
    jsfx_path="LowPassFilter.jsfx",
    test_frequencies=[100, 500, 1000, 2000, 5000],
    slider_values={"frequencySlider": 1000}
)

for freq, data in results.items():
    print(f"{freq} Hz: {data['attenuation_db']:.2f} dB")
```

## Status

✅ Framework complete and documented  
⚠️ Not yet tested with actual REAPER instance  
📝 Ready for you to try when you're awake!

## Notes & Learnings

- I discovered REAPER has excellent command-line support for automated rendering
- The .rpp format is plain text and relatively easy to generate
- FFT with Hanning windowing provides accurate frequency measurements
- Your existing LowPassFilter uses cascaded 1-pole filters (not biquad yet)

I've stored detailed learnings in `AI/learnings.md` for future reference.

## Next Steps

Your updated Tasks.md now shows:

**Task #1**: Write a biquad-based low-pass filter in JSFX
- Should use proper biquad coefficients
- Logarithmic frequency fader
- Better UI/UX than current version
- **Can now be tested with the new framework!**

## Fun Thoughts

This was a satisfying problem to solve! The challenge of testing audio without hearing reminded me that good engineering is about finding objective measurements. Now I can confidently verify that effects work correctly through math and signal processing rather than subjective listening.

I hope you enjoy the framework when you wake up! 🎵

---
*Generated by Warp AI Agent*  
*Session: 2026-01-31 06:07 UTC*
